[MUSIC]
We are now going to experiment with one
of the issues you'll encounter when
using a VLOOKUP.
Sometimes, the data you are trying to look
up does not exist within your data set.
And therefore the function
returns an error message.
We have an example of
this in the table above,
which is looking up information about
specific distributors from the sales data,
some of which exist in our data set,
and others that don't.
You'll see that there is no distributor
with an ID of 3000 or 4000.
So, Excel is returning an error message.
We see this quite frequently in business.
Since a product may not have been
sold during a specific period or
the specific variable set we are working
with does not apply to all the situations.
It also happens when data cleansing
has not been performed correctly.
The error message does not only look poor.
It is also not helpful in explaining what
the issue is and it could cause further
downstream issues when you're trying
to run computations on the dataset.
For example, if I do =sum on a range
containing even a single error message,
the sum function will return an error.
However, Excel has given us
a tool to work around this.
It's called the IFERROR function.
The IFERROR function tells Excel
what value you would like to return
if an error occurs.
So let's try rebuilding the table
above using the IFERROR function.
We're going to start with cell C107 and
type the formula we want
to start working with.
Since Excel works with
the order of operations PEMDAS,
the IFERROR should be enacted last.
I'm going to start with
my IFERROR statement
as the outermost argument
to follow this logic.
So let's type =IFERROR.
As you can see,
the syntax is comprised of two parts.
The first part being what argument or
series or
arguments does the statement apply to?
And what do you want Excel to do if it
encounters an error at that statement?
The value we care about here is
the output from the VLOOKUP.
Let's start by typing the view lookup
formula we have been working with.
The view lookup value is
the distributor ID in B107.
We know that we want to anchor B107 so
that we can use it again for other cells.
The table array if we remember
from earlier is the sales data,
which is a named range.
Open the Name Manager using F3, and
double-click on this cell's data.
Now, remember from previous exercises
that the name is in column 2, and
we don't want an approximate match,
so we are going to type false.
When I close the parenthesis,
you'll notice that I'm no longer
working in the VLOOKUP statement.
I'm back to working in
the IFERROR statement.
When I hit comma, I shift from the value
field to the value that Excel will
display in case my view lookup
formula results in an error.
I would like it to say data not available.
Know that since this is text,
I have to add quotes to each
side of my text string.
I'm going to insert a quotation mark and
then type, Data Not Available,
close the quotes.
Close the second formula that I'm
working with and click Enter.
The name comes up because there's a match.
However, we know there is nothing for
the second distributor.
So let's see what happens
when we paste it down.
Distributor ID 4000 comes back with
Data Not Available as we would expect.
Now since we properly
locked this information,
we can use this formula to
fill in revenue as well.
Let's work with the revenue and
copy and paste a formula over.
It's coming back with the name because we
still need to update the column number.
We remember from earlier that
the revenue can be found in column 10,
so I'm going to change my 2 to 10.
For the error statement here, I'm going
to change the error statement from
Data Not Available to the number 0 as
we are working with a numerical output.
To accomplish this, I will exchange
the error statement to a 0 and
remove the quotes as we are no
longer dealing with a text input.
You will notice that we have revenue
values for everywhere there's a match and
where the data is not available,
the output is 0.
That now makes it possible to run
math off our new revenue column.
For example,
we can even sum the revenue column and
find that the total revenue for
these distributors is $184.86.
Now it's your turn to practice
problem 3b on your own.
Work up the average unit price for the
product, and then use an average formula
to calculate the average unit price across
all the distributors found in column B.
[MUSIC]